readme.md, before:

# TrackMates

Track your progress for all your courses

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1 Useful Links

- Pay attention, that we have certain [quality criteria](https://github.com/BinaryStudioAcademy/quality-criteria/blob/production/src/javascript.md), which we should follow during application development.

Deployed application:
[TrackMates](https://trackmates.net/)

#### Documentation:

- [Specification](./docs/specification.md)
- [Test Strategy](./docs/test-strategy.md)
- [Test Plan](./docs/test-plan.md)

## 2. Domain

The product helps the users to track the progress in all their courses from different vendors in one place, along with additional features like checking friends' progress

## 3. Requirements

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en) (18.x.x);
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (>=9.x.x);
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) (15.4)

## 4. Database Schema

```mermaid

erDiagram
   users {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    citext email
    text password_hash
    text password_salt
   }

   user_details {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int user_id FK
    varchar first_name
    varchar last_name
    varchar nickname
    enum sex
    int avatar_file_id FK
   }

   courses {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar url
    varchar title
    varchar description
    varchar image
    varchar vendor_course_id
    int vendor_id FK
   }

   courses_to_users {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int course_id FK
    int user_id FK
   }

   vendors {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar name
    varchar key
    varchar url
   }

   course_sections {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int course_id FK
    varchar title
   }

   section_statuses {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int course_section_id FK
    int user_id FK
    enum status
   }

   friends {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int follower_id FK
    int following_idFK
   }

   files {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar url
    enum content_type
   }

   chats {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int first_user_id FK
    int second_user_id FK
   }

   chat_messages {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int sender_user_id FK
    int chat_id FK
    enum status
    text text
   }

   notifications {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int receiver_user_id FK
    int user_id FK
    int action_id
    enum status
    enum type
   }
   activities {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    enum type
    int action_id
    int user_id FK
    text payload
   }

   activity_likes {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int activity_id FK
    int user_id FK
   }

  comments {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime update_at
    text text
    int user_id FK
    int activity_id FK
  }

  groups {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar key UK
    varchar name UK
  }

  permissions {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar key UK
    varchar name UK
  }

  groups_to_permissions {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int group_id FK
    int permission_id FK
  }

  users_to_groups {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int group_id FK
    int user_id FK
  }

  subscriptions {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    dateTime expires_at
  }

   users ||--|| user_details : user_id
   user_details ||--|| files : avatar_file_id
   user_details ||--|| subscriptions : subscription_id

   users ||--|{ friends : follower_id
   users ||--|{ friends : following_id

   users ||--|{ chats : first_user_id
   users ||--|{ chats : second_user_id

   chats ||--|{ chat_messages : chat_id

   users ||--|{ chat_messages : sender_user_id

   users ||--|{ courses_to_users : user_id
   courses ||--|{ courses_to_users : course_id

   courses ||--|| vendors : vendor_id

   course_sections }|--|| courses : course_id
   section_statuses }|--|| course_sections : course_section_id
   section_statuses }|--|| users : user_id
   activities }|--|| users : user_id

   users ||--|{ activity_likes : user_id
   activities ||--|{ activity_likes : activity_id

   comments }|--|| activities : activity_id
   comments }|--|| users : user_id

   users ||--|{ notifications : receiver_user_id
   users ||--|{ notifications : user_id

   groups ||--|{ groups_to_permissions : group_id
   permissions ||--|{ groups_to_permissions : permission_id

   users ||--|{ users_to_groups : user_id
   groups ||--|{ users_to_groups : group_id
```

## 5. Architecture

TODO: add application schema

### 5.1 Global

#### 5.1.1 Technologies

1. [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
2. [npm workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/using-npm/workspaces)

### 5.2 Frontend

#### 5.2.1 Technologies

1. [React](https://react.dev/) — a frontend library
2. [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) + [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/) — a state manager

#### 5.2.2 Folder Structure

1. assets - static assets (images, global styles)
2. libs - shared libraries and utilities

   2.1 components - plain react components

   2.2 enums

   2.3 helpers

   2.4 hooks

   2.5 modules - separate features or functionalities

   2.6 types

3. modules - separate app features or functionalities
4. pages - app pages

### 5.3 Backend

#### 5.3.1 Technologies

1. [Fastify](https://fastify.dev/) — a backend framework
2. [Knex](https://knexjs.org/) — a query builder
3. [Objection](https://vincit.github.io/objection.js/) — an ORM

#### 5.3.2 Folder Structure

1. db - database data (migrations, seeds)
2. libs - shared libraries and utilities

   2.1 enums

   2.2 exceptions

   2.3 helpers

   2.4 modules - separate features or functionalities

   2.5 types

3. modules - separate app features or functionalities

### 5.4 Shared Package

#### 5.4.1 Reason

As we are already using js on both frontend and backend it would be useful to share some contracts and code between them.

#### 5.4.2 Technologies

1. [Zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) — a schema validator

## 6. How to Run

### 6.1 Manually

1. Create and fill all .env files. These files are:

- apps/frontend/.env
- apps/backend/.env

You should use .env.example files as a reference.

1. Install dependencies: `npm install`.

2. Install pre-commit hooks: `npx simple-git-hooks`. This hook is used to verify code style on commit.

3. Run database. You can run it by installing postgres on your computer.

4. Apply migrations: `npm run migrate:dev -w apps/backend`

5. Run backend: `npm run start:dev -w apps/backend`

6. Run frontend: `npm run start:dev -w apps/frontend`

## 7. Development Flow

### 7.1 Pull Request Flow

```
<type>: <ticket-title> <project-prefix>-<issue-number>
```

For the full list of types check [Conventional Commits](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional)

Examples:

- `feat: add dashboard screen tm-123`

### 7.2 Branch Flow

```
<issue-number>-<type>-<short-desc>
```

Examples:

- `123-feat-add-dashboard`
- `12-feat-add-user-flow`
- `34-fix-user-flow`

### 7.3 Commit Flow

We use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0) to handle commit messages

```
<type>: <description> <project-prefix>-<issue-number>
```

Examples:

- `feat: add dashboard component tm-45`
- `fix: update dashboard card size tm-212`

## 8. Deployment

CI/CD implemented using [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions)

Commit message:

feat(frontend/backend/shared): forgot password tm-499 (#570)
* fix(frontend/shared): ui sketches tm-499

* fix(frontend): finish ui tm-499

* fix(backend): add endpoints to controller tm-499

* feat(backend): sending mail, updating password tm-499

* feat(backend): raw commit tm-499

* feat(backend/frontend/shared): updating password tm-499

* fix(backend): remove eslint-disable-next-line tm-499

* feat(frontend): show 'check your email' tm-499

* feat(backend): move RESET_PASSWORD_BASE_LINK to .env file tm-499

* feat(backend/shared): separate token for reset password link tm-499

* feat(backend): move all Mail settings to .env tm-499

* feat(backend): check updatedAt when verify token tm-499

* fix(backend/frontend/shared): rename AuthForgotPasswordRequestDto tm-499

* fix(backend): rename RESET_PASSWORD -> RESET_PASSWORD  tm-499

* fix(backend): rename ResetPassword -> UpdatePassword tm-499

* fix(backend): reset -> update tm-499

* fix(backend): authForgotPasswordValidationSchema->authSendUpdatePasswordLinkValidationSchema tm-499

* fix(frontend): forgot-password -> send-update-password-link tm-499

* fix(backend): install @types/nodemailer tm-499

* feat(backend): swagger doc tm-499

* feat(backend): read.me tm-499

* feat(backend/frontend): fixes after review tm-499

* feat(backend/frontend): fixes after review tm-499

* fix(backend/frontend/shared): rename SendUpdatePasswordLink -> ForgotPassword tm-499

* fix(backend/frontend): make token part of query instead of params tm-499

* fix(backend/frontend): fixes after review tm-499

* fix(backend/frontend): fixes after review tm-499

* fix(frontend): each constant in a separate file tm-499

* fix(frontend/backend): fixes after review tm-499

* fix(frontend/shared): remove tocken input from update password form tm-499

* fix(frontend): update design tm-499

* fix(frontend/backend): fixes after review tm-499

readme.md, after:

# TrackMates

Track your progress for all your courses

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1 Useful Links

- Pay attention, that we have certain [quality criteria](https://github.com/BinaryStudioAcademy/quality-criteria/blob/production/src/javascript.md), which we should follow during application development.

Deployed application:
[TrackMates](https://trackmates.net/)

#### Documentation:

- [Specification](./docs/specification.md)
- [Test Strategy](./docs/test-strategy.md)
- [Test Plan](./docs/test-plan.md)

## 2. Domain

The product helps the users to track the progress in all their courses from different vendors in one place, along with additional features like checking friends' progress

## 3. Requirements

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en) (18.x.x);
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (>=9.x.x);
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) (15.4)

## 4. Database Schema

```mermaid

erDiagram
   users {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    citext email
    text password_hash
    text password_salt
   }

   user_details {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int user_id FK
    varchar first_name
    varchar last_name
    varchar nickname
    enum sex
    int avatar_file_id FK
   }

   courses {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar url
    varchar title
    varchar description
    varchar image
    varchar vendor_course_id
    int vendor_id FK
   }

   courses_to_users {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int course_id FK
    int user_id FK
   }

   vendors {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar name
    varchar key
    varchar url
   }

   course_sections {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int course_id FK
    varchar title
   }

   section_statuses {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int course_section_id FK
    int user_id FK
    enum status
   }

   friends {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int follower_id FK
    int following_idFK
   }

   files {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar url
    enum content_type
   }

   chats {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int first_user_id FK
    int second_user_id FK
   }

   chat_messages {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int sender_user_id FK
    int chat_id FK
    enum status
    text text
   }

   notifications {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int receiver_user_id FK
    int user_id FK
    int action_id
    enum status
    enum type
   }
   activities {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    enum type
    int action_id
    int user_id FK
    text payload
   }

   activity_likes {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int activity_id FK
    int user_id FK
   }

  comments {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime update_at
    text text
    int user_id FK
    int activity_id FK
  }

  groups {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar key UK
    varchar name UK
  }

  permissions {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    varchar key UK
    varchar name UK
  }

  groups_to_permissions {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int group_id FK
    int permission_id FK
  }

  users_to_groups {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    int group_id FK
    int user_id FK
  }

  subscriptions {
    int id PK
    dateTime created_at
    dateTime updated_at
    dateTime expires_at
  }

   users ||--|| user_details : user_id
   user_details ||--|| files : avatar_file_id
   user_details ||--|| subscriptions : subscription_id

   users ||--|{ friends : follower_id
   users ||--|{ friends : following_id

   users ||--|{ chats : first_user_id
   users ||--|{ chats : second_user_id

   chats ||--|{ chat_messages : chat_id

   users ||--|{ chat_messages : sender_user_id

   users ||--|{ courses_to_users : user_id
   courses ||--|{ courses_to_users : course_id

   courses ||--|| vendors : vendor_id

   course_sections }|--|| courses : course_id
   section_statuses }|--|| course_sections : course_section_id
   section_statuses }|--|| users : user_id
   activities }|--|| users : user_id

   users ||--|{ activity_likes : user_id
   activities ||--|{ activity_likes : activity_id

   comments }|--|| activities : activity_id
   comments }|--|| users : user_id

   users ||--|{ notifications : receiver_user_id
   users ||--|{ notifications : user_id

   groups ||--|{ groups_to_permissions : group_id
   permissions ||--|{ groups_to_permissions : permission_id

   users ||--|{ users_to_groups : user_id
   groups ||--|{ users_to_groups : group_id
```

## 5. Architecture

TODO: add application schema

### 5.1 Global

#### 5.1.1 Technologies

1. [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
2. [npm workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/using-npm/workspaces)

### 5.2 Frontend

#### 5.2.1 Technologies

1. [React](https://react.dev/) — a frontend library
2. [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) + [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/) — a state manager

#### 5.2.2 Folder Structure

1. assets - static assets (images, global styles)
2. libs - shared libraries and utilities

   2.1 components - plain react components

   2.2 enums

   2.3 helpers

   2.4 hooks

   2.5 modules - separate features or functionalities

   2.6 types

3. modules - separate app features or functionalities
4. pages - app pages

### 5.3 Backend

#### 5.3.1 Technologies

1. [Fastify](https://fastify.dev/) — a backend framework
2. [Knex](https://knexjs.org/) — a query builder
3. [Objection](https://vincit.github.io/objection.js/) — an ORM

#### 5.3.2 Folder Structure

1. db - database data (migrations, seeds)
2. libs - shared libraries and utilities

   2.1 enums

   2.2 exceptions

   2.3 helpers

   2.4 modules - separate features or functionalities

   2.5 types

3. modules - separate app features or functionalities

### 5.4 Shared Package

#### 5.4.1 Reason

As we are already using js on both frontend and backend it would be useful to share some contracts and code between them.

#### 5.4.2 Technologies

1. [Zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) — a schema validator

## 6. How to Run

### 6.1 Manually

1. Create and fill all .env files. These files are:

- apps/frontend/.env
- apps/backend/.env

You should use .env.example files as a reference.

In order to set up sending emails you need specify `MAIL_USER_EMAIL` and `MAIL_USER_PASSWORD`. Here is [instruction for generating gmail app password](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/185833?hl=en)

1. Install dependencies: `npm install`.

2. Install pre-commit hooks: `npx simple-git-hooks`. This hook is used to verify code style on commit.

3. Run database. You can run it by installing postgres on your computer.

4. Apply migrations: `npm run migrate:dev -w apps/backend`

5. Run backend: `npm run start:dev -w apps/backend`

6. Run frontend: `npm run start:dev -w apps/frontend`

## 7. Development Flow

### 7.1 Pull Request Flow

```
<type>: <ticket-title> <project-prefix>-<issue-number>
```

For the full list of types check [Conventional Commits](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional)

Examples:

- `feat: add dashboard screen tm-123`

### 7.2 Branch Flow

```
<issue-number>-<type>-<short-desc>
```

Examples:

- `123-feat-add-dashboard`
- `12-feat-add-user-flow`
- `34-fix-user-flow`

### 7.3 Commit Flow

We use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0) to handle commit messages

```
<type>: <description> <project-prefix>-<issue-number>
```

Examples:

- `feat: add dashboard component tm-45`
- `fix: update dashboard card size tm-212`

## 8. Deployment

CI/CD implemented using [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions)
